hi there Lindsay here the frugal crafter
today I'm going to show you how to make
these cute little mini books they can be
used for scrapbooks it can be used for
art journals it can be use for list
making and you can reuse some of the old
scrapbooking paper that maybe you were
not in love with like I did on this list
book here I thought it'd be cute for a
shopping list in it's got little pockets
in there for you to put tags or receipts
or whatever and I just want to show you
it's the same way to make these
regardless of whatever paper size you're
using this was me with an 18 by 24
drawing paper as the as the pages this
was made with a 9 by 12 paper as the
pages and this was made with 12 a 12
scrapbook paper
so it'll generally be 1/8 of the size of
the paper you start with so we're going
to make some out of scrapbook paper and
make a kind of a shopping list book like
this and what you want to do is take a
piece of scrapbook paper and if you want
it to be colorful on the outside like
maybe you're making a sticker book or um
you know a little scrapbook or a journal
and you want the color on the outside
you'll want to fold it with the outside
out but if you're going to make a list
and you want to use that white back side
then fold it with the right the the
right side to the inside okay so we're
going to fold this with the pattern on
the inside so that we'll have white
pages
okay let's crease it down good and then
I fold it and fold it in half the other
way just try to line up your edges as
best you can and then fold each side
back to the center now you could just
fold it in half and fold it in half you
fold in half you could do that this is
just gonna make it squeaky this is just
going to make it a little bit easier for
you to fold when you're making your book
alright so there we go
sOooo squeakin again alright so then
you've got this paper here with a grid
now you need to cut from here to here
you can do that with scissors I'm going
to do this in a kid's class and they're
going to use scissors but I actually
prefer the look when I use an exacto
knife because I get a much nicer finish
so I'm going to cut from that fold there
at the end all the way through the rest
of the paper and then what you want to
do is fold it in half okay and then
you're just going to accordion fold each
of the strips you have
okay see how easy that is easy as pie
and there you have your pages now you'll
notice in the middle you're going to
have a see kind of that back side
peeking through so what I like to do
there I'll just open it up like that
and I'm going to make a pocket because
if I'm going to use this as a shopping
list then this would be a great place I
could cut coupons or receipts or
something like that in there or maybe
put a secret list if I'm going to be
doing some Christmas shopping and I want
to keep that in the car I can put a
secret list in there where the kids
won't find it and then that way now I
have just plain white pages and if you
see a little color peeking through you
can trim that off with your scissors so
you want to make as many of these as you
want so let's see how many pages we get
if we're doing a pattern we got one two
three four five six seven eight so if
you're doing one without a cover which
is plain white paper you'd actually have
nine and ten pages so so what I've done
is I've made three more of these so I'll
have four and that would give me four
times eight pages four times eight is
twenty-four eight to sixteen thirty to
thirty to five math oh boy and so that
I'm going to put them all together here
and then I'm going to adhere the colored
pages to each other and so that would
give me a little pocket where every
where every page met don't forget to
seal off the bottom or whoops is not
gonna be much of a pocket my goodness my
chicken isn't cooperating all right just
make sure you have your white pages to
the same side there glue these together
it's so fun to watch not boring at all
I'll sing to entertain you there we go
one more time I love this because it
uses up some of those scrapbook pages
would have trouble papers we've had
around for ever I've divided the bulk
you know the stacks of scrap of paper
because it's so much more affordable you
know rather than paying 70 cents a sheet
you're getting you know you can get a
hundred eighty sheets for ten bucks or
so so this is what you end up with whoo
look at that we basically a big
accordion file a big accordion style
thing there all right so to make the
cover I'm just going to grab this
because it's pretty I'm gonna lay this
look in the middle and this is going to
be just like how you would cover like a
school book kind of so I'm going to just
kind of measure up on one side and then
I'm going to fold that one side down if
as long as you measure as long as you
line up the edge you should get a nice
straight fold and it should be you know
the same all the way down okay and then
I'm going to do that again I want to
leave a little bit of wiggle room not a
time just a little bit though so I'll be
able to you know get these the flaps
around my book okay hopefully that's not
gonna be too tight just line it up to
the edge and crease it over and then I
also like to fold it in the middle okay
and then I'm going to look at this and
see about what do I have about half an
inch here centimeter or so so I'm gonna
make a fold next to this one about
centimeter away again if was long thin
line upper edges we're gonna end up with
nice parallel folds okay and then I'm
gonna put my book in here and figure out
how far I need for my next fold so what
I'm what I like to do here is actually
fold it back just so I can really see
and visualize it here hold it there
do the same let me just crease that that
folding it down it's if you can
pre-crease things you know it really
makes a big difference really makes it
look neat and tidy and um do it again on
the other side actually probably eyeball
it here let's see I think I could
probably I think that's going to be you
can you can adjust it don't worry if you
don't have it exactly right okay let's
take a look there think that's pretty
good okay now we're going to put our
booklet in okay so we've got our little
folded spine area that seems to be about
right and then we are just going to
slide our end paper or in-page into the
little pocket that this makes look at
this we're doing this real time you can
totally make these run in like less than
ten minutes I think these are also be
really cute little stocking stuffers or
our um you know little gifts if you make
some you know stationery maybe throw one
of these little notepads everybody need
the notepads which is like by the phone
or something but look at that that it's
so cute so easy and so very useful you
could even stick a pen in one of those
little pockets you made so there you
have it use up that old scrapbook paper
you can also use just a regular computer
paper you can use drawing paper it's
great for the kids and something fun to
make I like fun things good for craft
fairs to make a myself at your craft
fairs and earn some money for Christmas
shopping how about that I want to thank
you so much for watching please give me
a thumbs up if you enjoyed this tutorial
share it on Pinterest on facebook on
twitter wherever you like to share
things and of course tell your friends
all about that crazy lady that showed
you how to make a look oh thank you so
much for watching and till next time
happy crafting